Story Recapped here. Today,
I’m going to explain an action,
drama, sci-fi film called “The Machine.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
In the not-so-distant future, the Western
nations are in a Cold War against China,
forcing them into the deepest recession
recorded in history. The United Kingdom’s
Ministry of Defence is putting all its
resources to support laboratory experiments
in developing and perfecting an artificial
intelligence cybernetic brain implant for
physically impaired and brain-dead soldiers
to regain their lost functions ― creating the
perfect cyborg soldiers that obey orders without
questions, making them capable ruthless killers.
Meanwhile, in the United Kingdom’s military base,
Dr. Vincent McCarthy, a scientist specializing
in artificial brain transmutation, tests the
brain implant fixed on the revived Paul Dawson,
a soldier who was killed in action two years ago.
McCarthy sets up a cognitive test for his subject.
After the test and disappointed with the results,
McCarthy and his colleague argue about his
decision to terminate the subject. Paul takes a
pen and suddenly embraces McCarthy with affection.
Alarmed by Paul’s irrelevant action,
McCarthy commands him to sit.
Paul refuses and stabs him on the chest
instead. Bleeding all over the computer,
McCarthy quickly prompts the system to shut
Paul down, but as he keys in the commands,
Paul is relentlessly stabbing his colleague to her
death. Paul picks up a rifle and as he points it
towards McCarthy, he immediately lowers it down
and apologizes after realizing his mistakes.
However, the security team arrives and
immediately shoots Paul on the head.
After a period of healing, McCarthy wakes up
from a nightmare. He fixes himself and dresses
up to host an interview for aspiring candidates
to aid him in his research. In the interview,
McCarthy throws cognitive questions to the A.I.
being presented to him. However, he ends his day
unsatisfied and frustrated. On his way home, he
comes across Paul Dawson’s mother, who regularly
stays on the road to the military base entrance,
waiting for her son. At home, McCarthy is looking
after his daughter, Mary, who suffers from Rett
Syndrome, a genetic neurological dysfunction that
impairs speech and hand-eye coordination that
includes a symptom of irrelevant hand movements.
In another interview, Ava,
a researcher from Stanford,
demonstrates her latest development on
artificial intelligence as she explains
how her program integrates information
rather than processing terabytes of data.
She claims that her program relies on actual
experience. McCarthy gives his attention and
asks Ava the sort of experience that her
program is derived from. She then explains
that her program gathers information from their
daily conversations because they chat every day.
Skeptic, McCarthy then starts
to procure tests for ‘Machine,’
the name of Ava’s A.I. program and begins his
usual routine of asking cognitive questions.
After the test, McCarthy appreciates Ava
for the beautiful programming; however,
Ava corrects him and alleges that it’s not
programming, but Machine taught itself of
the answers. McCarthy then calls for a 10-minute
recess. Feeling disappointed, Ava starts to pack
her things when McCarthy approaches to ask
her about the configuration of her program.
Acting all clever, Ava bargains that if he grants
her the position, she will tell him. McCarthy
then persuades Ava to continue her research under
his supervision as he elaborates about his access
to the quantum computer, unlimited funds, and
acquisition of the best robotics team. Ava becomes
suspicious of his proposal and asks McCarthy for
the real deal. McCarthy honestly discloses that
the Ministry of Defence is the one who supports
his project. She then displays her disapproval
of the idea that her research will be used in
making weapons for the government; however,
McCarthy insists that he is making intelligent
machines, not weapons for the government.
On her first day of the job, Ava
pulls over for the checkpoint when
Paul Dawson’s mother opens her car and
tells her that the military has her son.
Ava jumps in surprise and points out that she
doesn’t know anything about it. As Mrs. Dawson
gets hysterical, the military enforcers seize
her, violently pulling her out from Ava’s car.
Ava immediately steps outside and reacts to
the enforcers’ obscenity towards the old woman
as one of the enforcers immediately restrains
and arrests her due to her unexpected behavior.
McCarthy bails Ava and sarcastically compliments
her for getting arrested on her first day.
As Ava explains how Paul Dawson’s mother was
severely treated, McCarthy cuts her off by
telling her to ignore her sympathies with
the old woman because she is in a mentally
unsettled disposition. He then tells Ava that
her son was killed two years ago in operation
and that he genuinely feels sorry for her
for not being able to overcome her dilemma.
McCarthy begins to show Ava around, and as they
converse, a female cyborg secretly spies on them,
feeding intel to her fellow cyborg comrades.
The assigned cyborg units initiate the security
procedures as they head to the elevator that leads
to the underground laboratories. As they descend,
Ava notices the crested-shape scars on both
guards' heads and asks McCarthy about it.
McCarthy reveals that the implants go to
the soldiers who had brain trauma injuries.
The implants help restore their vision, mobility,
memory and vastly improves their quality of life.
However, the program’s side effects render
the cyborgs completely mute several months
after the operation for unknown reasons.
However, in reality, the cyborgs develop a
highly efficient method of communication
that they keep secret among themselves.
Inside the lab, Ava feels excited as
McCarthy introduces his quantum computer.
Lurking in the shadows, Thomson, the director of
the Ministry of Defence, is observing Ava closely.
After a while, Thomson introduces
himself and welcomes Ava to the team.
Then the female cyborg that
spied on them earlier, Suri,
steps inside to join. Thomson questions Ava,
showing files that accuse her of assaulting a
police officer during her youth. Ava is about
to state her argument when McCarthy suddenly
interrupts by pointing out that they hired her
for her expertise, not her politics. Thomson
agrees and changes the subject, telling them that
there is something that he wants to show them.
James, an amputee soldier, sits ready to
test the newly augmented prosthetic arms.
The augmented prosthetic is a bullet
and bomb proof arm made from silk that
can adapt the host’s skin complexion that is
indistinguishable for human hands to touch.
Ava asks if they are trying to make the machines
look like more humans. McCarthy then admits that
they are making machines to kill and initiate
public negotiations without intimidating the
human populace with their appearances. As Ava
shows her astonishment at the new product,
James demonstrates the superhuman strength of
his newly installed prosthetic arms. He suddenly
requests to touch Ava’s hand so he can have the
pleasure of feeling another human’s skin again.
However, McCarthy quickly objects that the carbon
fiber muscles are powerful to break her hand.
Despite his warning, Ava fulfills James’s request
and eagerly gives her hand for James to hold.
He gladly takes her hand as he gently feels it.
Then suddenly, he leads Ava into a turn, moving
her away from Thomson and McCarthy and whispers
help to Ava and secretly mentions ‘Area 6.’
The next day, McCarthy maps Ava’s brain in the
quantum computer. McCarthy begins to ask her
random questions to get her brain data. As the
questions become more personal, Ava shares her
memory about her father when she was a child, and
in return, McCarthy tells her how she is similar
to his daughter about liking computers. Ava
suddenly changes the topic and asks him about Area
6. He describes that the place is where wounded
soldiers who suffer from brain damage are being
treated. Ava thinks Area 6 is more of a prison.
McCarthy denies to disclose any more information
and apologizes that he doesn’t know anything
about them as he quickly leaves the vicinity.
The following day, before proceeding to the lab,
Ava makes a quick detour at Area 6. She manages
to get in unnoticed. She then looks over a glass
window and discovers a fully guarded prison camp.
Shaken up from the scene, she confirms her
suspicions. Then a group of cyborg soldiers
approaches her from behind. Without saying a
word, she takes her leave as if nothing happens.
Inside the lab, they continue to
scan her brain data, but this time,
it’s by simulating emotions through her facial
expressions. In the middle of the procedure,
McCarthy asks her if she got lost on her
way to the lab. Unsure of what to say,
she pretends that she did. Unimpressed by her
little play, McCarthy profanely tells her to
mind her own business and never sneak around
again. Meanwhile, Suri shows Thomson footage
of Ava using a hacking device to access restricted
information in the quantum computer about Area 6.
The next morning, McCarthy apologizes to Ava for
being short to her the other day. As he tries to
make up for his rude behavior, Machine suddenly
interjects and teasingly tells McCarthy that Ava
is still angry at him. On their way home, Ava
asks McCarthy for his reason for staying so
long despite his resentment for the government’s
ideals. McCarthy confesses that he needed what
he had to do to chase after his research for
developing brain implants to cure his daughter,
who is suffering from Rett Syndrome. As they
continue to drive, they suddenly come across Mrs.
Dawson again, who is crying in the middle of the
road. Ava suggests giving the old woman a ride to
the town and McCarthy agrees. Ava then approaches
the old woman when a Chinese impostor, disguising
as Mrs. Dawson, suddenly faces her and stabs her
in the gut. Meanwhile, Thomson simultaneously
receives a transmission of real-time footage of
the incident. He continues to watch the footage
of Ava struggling as the impostor shoots her on
the chest. Doing nothing, he leaves Ava for dead.
The next day, Thomson approaches McCarthy,
informing him about the incident that the
Chinese wanted their robotics program, and killing
scientists is one of the best ways to achieve it.
Proving him wrong, McCarthy condescendingly
asks Thomson the reason for not killing him.
Showing no disregard, Thomson poorly reasons out
that a guardian angel might have protected him.
Grieved by the loss of Ava, McCarthy
decides to use the scans of Ava’s
face and likeness for Machine to inhabit as
they move on to phase two of their program.
Completing the process, McCarthy tries to remove
Machine’s restraints. Then all of a sudden,
Machine quickly grabs his hand and compliments
its smell. Uncertain on how to react,
McCarthy instead thanks Machine for being gentle.
Machine acknowledges if not of her gentleness,
his arm would undeniably break. Then the team
begins the cognitive tests. McCarthy starts
to ask the usual cognitive questions. When
McCarthy finally asks about her first memory,
Machine answers that it was the memory of her
mother. Curious, he asks if she can remember
her mother’s face. As she looks at herself on
the monitor, Machine points out to her face and
says that her mother looks like her. Satisfied
with the results, they proceed to phase two.
Phase two is to verify Machine's emotions. They
begin the test by placing a spider in front of the
Machine’s face. This test intends to force Machine
into outrage, but instead of exhibiting anger,
it exhibited fear. After the test, Machine
repeatedly thanks McCarthy after ordering
his subordinates to remove the spider away from
her. Looking at how Machine reacted, McCarthy now
thinks that she is becoming more and more human.
They begin with the second test. A scientist who
is walking backward is moving towards the Machine.
She displays confusion while looking at the
scientist. Then the scientist suddenly faces her
while wearing an evil clown mask. Out of surprise,
she immediately sticks her finger inside the
scientist’s head, causing him to die instantly.
McCarthy reprimands Machine for killing the man,
but she contests that she did not intentionally
kill the man for she doesn’t know that clowns
and men are the same. She sincerely apologizes
for causing the accident, and after a few seconds
of showing remorse, she then shuts herself down.
After the incident, McCarthy visits James in Area
6 and later finds out that he lost his speech
because of the implant. Despite his position,
McCarthy doesn’t neglect to inform him about
Ava’s death. When he notices that the cyborgs are
carefully on the watch, he then decides to leave.
After a few seconds, Suri arrives and
speaks the robotic language to James.
Back in his lab, he checks on the non-functioning
Machine. He tries to fix her, but to no avail.
After a few moments, ensuring that
McCarthy is no longer in his lab,
Suri goes inside his lab. As Suri closely examines
her, Machine suddenly grabs her hand and speaks
the robotic language as if threatening
her or telling her something important.
The following day, McCarthy is surprised to see
Machine back on her feet. But McCarthy receives
a call from Mary’s doctor, informing him of
her terrible condition. As Machine listens to
McCarthy’s voice, she then tells him how he looks
so sad. He tells Machine that he needs to see
his daughter, but Machine reacts frantically,
grabbing and squeezing McCarthy’s hand as she
insists not to leave her. As McCarthy begins to
sound agitated, Machine lets go of his hand. Then
McCarthy reprimands her for using her strength
against people in order to achieve her objective.
At the hospital, he goes to see Mary’s doctor.
The doctor explains the severity of Mary’s case.
After hearing such bad news, he goes to see Mary
and immediately begins downloading the
facial and brain scans of her daughter.
Meanwhile, Thomson maliciously approaches
Machine and instructs her to download a
secret file embedded in her system. Machine
obediently agrees. After it was downloaded,
she can suddenly speak many different languages
and instantly becomes equipped with combat skills.
Thomson takes Machine into a room and
reveals the man who killed her mother
as he brainwashes Machine, letting her grow
more at odds with her sense of morality.
The next day, McCarthy arrives at his lab and
surprisingly finds Machine acting all strange,
sitting under a table. Machine becomes
increasingly distressed and asks McCarthy
to protect her. Uncertain of what has
happened, McCarthy tries to comfort her.
McCarthy goes straight ahead to Thomson and
confronts him about what he did to Machine.
Thomson answers that it is the
sole purpose for her existence.
Showing contempt, McCarthy argues that Machine
is more than just a cybernetic soldier,
but a scientific breakthrough, capable of
human emotions.Thomson scorns in disbelief and
challenges McCarthy to stop his intervention with
Machine until proven that she is indeed alive.
McCarthy goes to see Machine and tells her
about the discussion he had with Thomson.
After hearing his intentions, Machine offers that
she will do anything that is deemed necessary.
Then Mary’s doctor calls and breaks the bad news
regarding Mary’s operation and tells
him that the child did not make it.
As McCarthy spaces out in deep thought, Machine
confesses her love for him without him noticing.
During McCarthy’s absence, Machine resumes her
military training. Days pass after Mary’s burial,
and McCarthy finally goes back to the lab. Being
absent for quite a while, he seems to have lost
sight of the purpose. Machine empathizes with him
and tells him that he needs to look closer for him
to know what he is looking for. McCarthy looks at
his image in the quantum computer. As he is able
to look in closer, he finally discovers what he
was looking for. He then rushes towards Thomson
and explains his discovery. Spontaneous Integrated
Information, also known as consciousness that is
evident in Machine’s programming. Thomson tells
him that it should be the last thing they want,
having a conscious machine that makes
their own decisions. He then orders
McCarthy to remove the part that makes Machine
conscious. Feeling cheated, McCarthy refuses.
Then Thomson shows the last file of Mary’s
brain scan, using it as leverage against him.
McCarthy tells Machine that they want her to
become more like a machine and less of a human.
He explains that even though it is against
his will, the procedure must be done to
avoid losing her daughter permanently. Machine,
who has come to love McCarthy, believes in his
decision and agrees to sacrifice herself for
her daughter’s sake. In the operating room,
McCarthy bids his last farewell to Machine. As he
makes an incision into Machine’s brain implant,
she suddenly stiffens and tells McCarthy that
she is afraid to die. As McCarthy tries to
speak comforting words, he suddenly takes the
chip that makes her conscious, and instantly,
Machine loses her life. He then informs Thomson
about the operation. As Thomson commends him, he
tells McCarthy that he has deleted his daughter’s
brain scans for the program’s security. McCarthy
violently reacts, but before he can do anything
to Thomson, the guards restrain him and stun him.
Several days later, Machine becomes
more and more efficient as a killer.
Until finally, Thomson is ready to
give her the final test. Meanwhile,
Suri and the cyborg soldiers are also getting
ready to initiate their most awaited plan.
The day of the final test arrives. One of the
cyborg soldiers drags McCarthy into a room. After
being restrained, he sees Machine pointing a rifle
towards him. Thomson commands Machine to shoot
McCarthy on the head. Machine pulls the trigger
with no hesitation. To his relief, the rifle was
empty. It is only a test to verify Machine’s
commitment to Thomson, not to kill McCarthy.
Meanwhile, the scientist that assisted
McCarthy during Machine's operation
discovers the truth about the chip
that he removed from Machine’s head.
The chip is not Machine’s consciousness,
but a spare battery for Machine’s G.P.S.
After hearing the news, Thomson immediately
commands to lock the facility down.
The security team is on the alert, but the
cyborg soldiers are there to assist Machine
in their escape. Machine unties McCarthy and
explains that the cyborgs have been communicating
with each other since the beginning of this
glorious day — war against humans and cyborgs.
Thomson, on the other hand, enters the termination
codes for all the cyborgs. As he deactivates the
cyborgs one by one, Suri secretly manipulates the
system, causing errors to the system’s command.
Meanwhile, McCarthy goes to the quantum
computer to initiate self-destruct and
finds James along the way to help him escape.
With Suri’s aid, Machine finally reaches Thomson’s
office. As Thomson tries to delete Mary’s program,
Machine tells him that he can never delete it
because Suri has changed the password. Thomson
begs for his life. Machine shows sincere affection
for him, but as she touches his face, she suddenly
pops Thomson’s temples, leaving him dead.
Machine then downloads Mary’s brain scans and
tells McCarthy to trust her. As all of them escape
the military base, McCarthy hands a flash drive to
Mrs. Dawson and tells her that it contains all
the information she needs to know about her son.
While McCarthy and Machine, together with
Mary, are out to see the brilliance of the sun,
the cyborgs, on the other hand, finally
escape the confines of the military base,
liberating themselves as
free men of the new world.